README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="./docs/images/github-cover-new.png" alt="RAG Web UI Demo">
  <br />
  <p>
    <strong>Knowledge Base Management Based on RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation)</strong>
  </p>

  <p>
    <a href="https://github.com/rag-web-ui/rag-web-ui/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/rag-web-ui/rag-web-ui" alt="License"></a>
    <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9+-blue.svg" alt="Python"></a>
    <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D18-green.svg" alt="Node"></a>
    <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg" alt="PRs Welcome"></a>
    <a href="#"><img src="https://github.com/rag-web-ui/rag-web-ui/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI"></a>
  </p>

  <p>
    <a href="#features">Features</a> •
    <a href="#quick-start">Quick Start</a> •
    <a href="#deployment-guide">Deployment</a> •
    <a href="#architecture">Architecture</a> •
    <a href="#development">Development</a> •
    <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a>
  </p>

  <h4>
    <span>English</span> |
    <a href="README.zh-CN.md">简体中文</a>
  </h4>
</div>

## 📖 Introduction
RAG Web UI is an intelligent dialogue system based on RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) technology that helps build intelligent Q&A systems based on your own knowledge base. By combining document retrieval and large language models, it achieves accurate and reliable knowledge-based question answering services.

The system supports multiple **LLM** deployment options, including cloud services like **OpenAI** and **DeepSeek**, as well as local model deployment through **Ollama**, meeting privacy and cost requirements in different scenarios.

It also provides OpenAPI interfaces for convenient knowledge base access via API calls.

## ✨ Features
- 📚 **Intelligent Document Management**
  - Support for multiple document formats (PDF, DOCX, Markdown, Text)
  - Automatic document chunking and vectorization
  - Support for async document processing and incremental updates

- 🤖 **Advanced Dialogue Engine**
  - Precise retrieval and generation based on RAG
  - Support for multi-turn contextual dialogue
  - Support for reference citations in conversations

- 🎯 **Robust Architecture**
  - Frontend-backend separation design
  - Distributed file storage
  - High-performance vector database: Support for ChromaDB, Qdrant with easy switching through Factory pattern

## 🖼️ Screenshots

<div align="center">
  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot1.png" alt="Knowledge Base Management" width="800">
  <p><em>Knowledge Base Management Dashboard</em></p>
  
  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot2.png" alt="Chat Interface" width="800">
  <p><em>Document Processing Dashboard</em></p>
  
  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot3.png" alt="Document Processing" width="800">
  <p><em>Document List</em></p>
  
  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot4.png" alt="System Settings" width="800">
  <p><em>Intelligent Chat Interface with References</em></p>
  
  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot5.png" alt="Analytics Dashboard" width="800">
  <p><em>API Key Management</em></p>

  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot6.png" alt="Analytics Dashboard" width="800">
  <p><em>API Reference</em></p>
</div>

 ##  Project Flowchart
 
```mermaid
graph TB
    %% Role Definitions
    client["Caller/User"]
    open_api["Open API"]
    
    subgraph import_process["Document Ingestion Process"]
        direction TB
        %% File Storage and Document Processing Flow
        docs["Document Input<br/>(PDF/MD/TXT/DOCX)"]
        job_id["Return Job ID"]
        
        nfs["NFS"]

        subgraph async_process["Asynchronous Document Processing"]
            direction TB
            preprocess["Document Preprocessing<br/>(Text Extraction/Cleaning)"]
            split["Text Splitting<br/>(Segmentation/Overlap)"]
            
            subgraph embedding_process["Embedding Service"]
                direction LR
                embedding_api["Embedding API"] --> embedding_server["Embedding Server"]
            end
            
            store[(Vector Database)]
            
            %% Internal Flow of Asynchronous Processing
            preprocess --> split
            split --> embedding_api
            embedding_server --> store
        end
        
        subgraph job_query["Job Status Query"]
            direction TB
            job_status["Job Status<br/>(Processing/Completed/Failed)"]
        end
    end
    
    %% Query Service Flow  
    subgraph query_process["Query Service"]
        direction LR
        user_history["User History"] --> query["User Query<br/>(Based on User History)"]
        query --> query_embed["Query Embedding"]
        query_embed --> retrieve["Vector Retrieval"]
        retrieve --> rerank["Re-ranking<br/>(Cross-Encoder)"]
        rerank --> context["Context Assembly"]
        context --> llm["LLM Generation"]
        llm --> response["Final Response"]
        query -.-> rerank
    end
    
    %% Main Flow Connections
    client --> |"1.Upload Document"| docs
    docs --> |"2.Generate"| job_id
    docs --> |"3a.Trigger"| async_process
    job_id --> |"3b.Return"| client
    docs --> nfs
    nfs --> preprocess

    %% Open API Retrieval Flow
    open_api --> |"Retrieve Context"| retrieval_service["Retrieval Service"]
    retrieval_service --> |"Access"| store
    retrieval_service --> |"Return Context"| open_api

    %% Status Query Flow
    client --> |"4.Poll"| job_status
    job_status --> |"5.Return Progress"| client
    
    %% Database connects to Query Service
    store --> retrieve

    %% Style Definitions (Adjusted to match GitHub theme colors)
    classDef process fill:#d1ecf1,stroke:#0077b6,stroke-width:1px
    classDef database fill:#e2eafc,stroke:#003566,stroke-width:1px
    classDef input fill:#caf0f8,stroke:#0077b6,stroke-width:1px
    classDef output fill:#ffc8dd,stroke:#d00000,stroke-width:1px
    classDef rerank fill:#cdb4db,stroke:#5a189a,stroke-width:1px
    classDef async fill:#f8edeb,stroke:#7f5539,stroke-width:1px,stroke-dasharray: 5 5
    classDef actor fill:#fefae0,stroke:#606c38,stroke-width:1px
    classDef jobQuery fill:#ffedd8,stroke:#ca6702,stroke-width:1px
    classDef queryProcess fill:#d8f3dc,stroke:#40916c,stroke-width:1px
    classDef embeddingService fill:#ffe5d9,stroke:#9d0208,stroke-width:1px
    classDef importProcess fill:#e5e5e5,stroke:#495057,stroke-width:1px

    %% Applying classes to nodes
    class docs,query,retrieval_service input
    class preprocess,split,query_embed,retrieve,context,llm process
    class store,nfs database
    class response,job_id,job_status output
    class rerank rerank
    class async_process async
    class client,open_api actor
    class job_query jobQuery
    style query_process fill:#d8f3dc,stroke:#40916c,stroke-width:1px
    style embedding_process fill:#ffe5d9,stroke:#9d0208,stroke-width:1px
    style import_process fill:#e5e5e5,stroke:#495057,stroke-width:1px
    style job_query fill:#ffedd8,stroke:#ca6702,stroke-width:1px
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker & Docker Compose v2.0+
- Node.js 18+
- Python 3.9+
- 8GB+ RAM

### Installation

1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/rag-web-ui/rag-web-ui.git
cd rag-web-ui
```

2. Configure environment variables

You can check the details in the configuration table below.

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Start services(development server)
```bash
docker compose up -d --build
```

### Verification

Access the following URLs after service startup:

- 🌐 Frontend UI: http://127.0.0.1.nip.io
- 📚 API Documentation: http://127.0.0.1.nip.io/redoc
- 💾 MinIO Console: http://127.0.0.1.nip.io:9001

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Backend Stack

- 🐍 **Python FastAPI**: High-performance async web framework
- 🗄️ **MySQL + ChromaDB**: Relational + Vector databases
- 📦 **MinIO**: Distributed object storage
- 🔗 **Langchain**: LLM application framework
- 🔒 **JWT + OAuth2**: Authentication

### Frontend Stack

- ⚛️ **Next.js 14**: React framework
- 📘 **TypeScript**: Type safety
- 🎨 **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS
- 🎯 **Shadcn/UI**: High-quality components
- 🤖 **Vercel AI SDK**: AI integration

## 📈 Performance Optimization

The system is optimized in the following aspects:

- ⚡️ Incremental document processing and async chunking
- 🔄 Streaming responses and real-time feedback
- 📑 Vector database performance tuning
- 🎯 Distributed task processing

## 📖 Development Guide

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d --build
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Core Configuration

| Parameter                   | Description                | Default   | Required |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------- | --------- | -------- |
| MYSQL_SERVER                | MySQL Server Address       | localhost | ✅        |
| MYSQL_USER                  | MySQL Username             | postgres  | ✅        |
| MYSQL_PASSWORD              | MySQL Password             | postgres  | ✅        |
| MYSQL_DATABASE              | MySQL Database Name        | ragwebui  | ✅        |
| SECRET_KEY                  | JWT Secret Key             | -         | ✅        |
| ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRE_MINUTES | JWT Token Expiry (minutes) | 30        | ✅        |

### LLM Configuration

| Parameter         | Description           | Default                   | Applicable            |
| ----------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------- | --------------------- |
| CHAT_PROVIDER     | LLM Service Provider  | openai                    | ✅                     |
| OPENAI_API_KEY    | OpenAI API Key        | -                         | Required for OpenAI   |
| OPENAI_API_BASE   | OpenAI API Base URL   | https://api.openai.com/v1 | Optional for OpenAI   |
| OPENAI_MODEL      | OpenAI Model Name     | gpt-4                     | Required for OpenAI   |
| DEEPSEEK_API_KEY  | DeepSeek API Key      | -                         | Required for DeepSeek |
| DEEPSEEK_API_BASE | DeepSeek API Base URL | -                         | Required for DeepSeek |
| DEEPSEEK_MODEL    | DeepSeek Model Name   | -                         | Required for DeepSeek |
| OLLAMA_API_BASE   | Ollama API Base URL   | http://localhost:11434    | Required for Ollama   |
| OLLAMA_MODEL      | Ollama Model Name     | llama2                    | Required for Ollama   |

### Embedding Configuration

| Parameter                   | Description                | Default                | Applicable                    |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| EMBEDDINGS_PROVIDER         | Embedding Service Provider | openai                 | ✅                             |
| OPENAI_API_KEY              | OpenAI API Key             | -                      | Required for OpenAI Embedding |
| OPENAI_EMBEDDINGS_MODEL     | OpenAI Embedding Model     | text-embedding-ada-002 | Required for OpenAI Embedding |
| DASH_SCOPE_API_KEY          | DashScope API Key          | -                      | Required for DashScope        |
| DASH_SCOPE_EMBEDDINGS_MODEL | DashScope Embedding Model  | -                      | Required for DashScope        |
| OLLAMA_EMBEDDINGS_MODEL     | Ollama Embedding Model     | deepseek-r1:7b         | Required for Ollama Embedding |

### Vector Database Configuration

| Parameter          | Description                       | Default               | Applicable            |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------- | --------------------- | --------------------- |
| VECTOR_STORE_TYPE  | Vector Store Type                 | chroma                | ✅                     |
| CHROMA_DB_HOST     | ChromaDB Server Address           | localhost             | Required for ChromaDB |
| CHROMA_DB_PORT     | ChromaDB Port                     | 8000                  | Required for ChromaDB |
| QDRANT_URL         | Qdrant Vector Store URL           | http://localhost:6333 | Required for Qdrant   |
| QDRANT_PREFER_GRPC | Prefer gRPC Connection for Qdrant | true                  | Optional for Qdrant   |

### Object Storage Configuration

| Parameter         | Description          | Default        | Required |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------- | -------- |
| MINIO_ENDPOINT    | MinIO Server Address | localhost:9000 | ✅        |
| MINIO_ACCESS_KEY  | MinIO Access Key     | minioadmin     | ✅        |
| MINIO_SECRET_KEY  | MinIO Secret Key     | minioadmin     | ✅        |
| MINIO_BUCKET_NAME | MinIO Bucket Name    | documents      | ✅        |

### Other Configuration

| Parameter | Description      | Default       | Required |
| --------- | ---------------- | ------------- | -------- |
| TZ        | Timezone Setting | Asia/Shanghai | ❌        |

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome community contributions!

### Contribution Process

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Create a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines

- Follow [Python PEP 8](https://pep8.org/) coding standards
- Follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)


### 🚧 Roadmap

- [x] Knowledge Base API Integration
- [ ] Workflow By Natural Language
- [ ] Multi-path Retrieval
- [x] Support Multiple Models
- [x] Support Multiple Vector Databases

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the [Apache-2.0 License](LICENSE)

## Note

This project is for learning and sharing RAG knowledge only. Please do not use it for commercial purposes. It is not ready for production use and is still under active development.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Thanks to these open source projects:

- [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
- [Langchain](https://python.langchain.com/)
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
- [ChromaDB](https://www.trychroma.com/)


![star history](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=rag-web-ui/rag-web-ui&type=Date)

---

<div align="center">
  If this project helps you, please consider giving it a ⭐️
</div>

Commit message:

docs: Add troubleshooting section to README files
- Include troubleshooting guide link in both English and Chinese README
- Remove extra blank lines for cleaner formatting

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="./docs/images/github-cover-new.png" alt="RAG Web UI Demo">
  <br />
  <p>
    <strong>Knowledge Base Management Based on RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation)</strong>
  </p>

  <p>
    <a href="https://github.com/rag-web-ui/rag-web-ui/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/rag-web-ui/rag-web-ui" alt="License"></a>
    <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9+-blue.svg" alt="Python"></a>
    <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D18-green.svg" alt="Node"></a>
    <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg" alt="PRs Welcome"></a>
    <a href="#"><img src="https://github.com/rag-web-ui/rag-web-ui/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI"></a>
  </p>

  <p>
    <a href="#features">Features</a> •
    <a href="#quick-start">Quick Start</a> •
    <a href="#deployment-guide">Deployment</a> •
    <a href="#architecture">Architecture</a> •
    <a href="#development">Development</a> •
    <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a>
  </p>

  <h4>
    <span>English</span> |
    <a href="README.zh-CN.md">简体中文</a>
  </h4>
</div>

## 📖 Introduction
RAG Web UI is an intelligent dialogue system based on RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) technology that helps build intelligent Q&A systems based on your own knowledge base. By combining document retrieval and large language models, it achieves accurate and reliable knowledge-based question answering services.

The system supports multiple **LLM** deployment options, including cloud services like **OpenAI** and **DeepSeek**, as well as local model deployment through **Ollama**, meeting privacy and cost requirements in different scenarios.

It also provides OpenAPI interfaces for convenient knowledge base access via API calls.

## ✨ Features
- 📚 **Intelligent Document Management**
  - Support for multiple document formats (PDF, DOCX, Markdown, Text)
  - Automatic document chunking and vectorization
  - Support for async document processing and incremental updates

- 🤖 **Advanced Dialogue Engine**
  - Precise retrieval and generation based on RAG
  - Support for multi-turn contextual dialogue
  - Support for reference citations in conversations

- 🎯 **Robust Architecture**
  - Frontend-backend separation design
  - Distributed file storage
  - High-performance vector database: Support for ChromaDB, Qdrant with easy switching through Factory pattern

## 🖼️ Screenshots

<div align="center">
  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot1.png" alt="Knowledge Base Management" width="800">
  <p><em>Knowledge Base Management Dashboard</em></p>
  
  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot2.png" alt="Chat Interface" width="800">
  <p><em>Document Processing Dashboard</em></p>
  
  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot3.png" alt="Document Processing" width="800">
  <p><em>Document List</em></p>
  
  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot4.png" alt="System Settings" width="800">
  <p><em>Intelligent Chat Interface with References</em></p>
  
  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot5.png" alt="Analytics Dashboard" width="800">
  <p><em>API Key Management</em></p>

  <img src="./docs/images/screenshot6.png" alt="Analytics Dashboard" width="800">
  <p><em>API Reference</em></p>
</div>

 ##  Project Flowchart
 
```mermaid
graph TB
    %% Role Definitions
    client["Caller/User"]
    open_api["Open API"]
    
    subgraph import_process["Document Ingestion Process"]
        direction TB
        %% File Storage and Document Processing Flow
        docs["Document Input<br/>(PDF/MD/TXT/DOCX)"]
        job_id["Return Job ID"]
        
        nfs["NFS"]

        subgraph async_process["Asynchronous Document Processing"]
            direction TB
            preprocess["Document Preprocessing<br/>(Text Extraction/Cleaning)"]
            split["Text Splitting<br/>(Segmentation/Overlap)"]
            
            subgraph embedding_process["Embedding Service"]
                direction LR
                embedding_api["Embedding API"] --> embedding_server["Embedding Server"]
            end
            
            store[(Vector Database)]
            
            %% Internal Flow of Asynchronous Processing
            preprocess --> split
            split --> embedding_api
            embedding_server --> store
        end
        
        subgraph job_query["Job Status Query"]
            direction TB
            job_status["Job Status<br/>(Processing/Completed/Failed)"]
        end
    end
    
    %% Query Service Flow  
    subgraph query_process["Query Service"]
        direction LR
        user_history["User History"] --> query["User Query<br/>(Based on User History)"]
        query --> query_embed["Query Embedding"]
        query_embed --> retrieve["Vector Retrieval"]
        retrieve --> rerank["Re-ranking<br/>(Cross-Encoder)"]
        rerank --> context["Context Assembly"]
        context --> llm["LLM Generation"]
        llm --> response["Final Response"]
        query -.-> rerank
    end
    
    %% Main Flow Connections
    client --> |"1.Upload Document"| docs
    docs --> |"2.Generate"| job_id
    docs --> |"3a.Trigger"| async_process
    job_id --> |"3b.Return"| client
    docs --> nfs
    nfs --> preprocess

    %% Open API Retrieval Flow
    open_api --> |"Retrieve Context"| retrieval_service["Retrieval Service"]
    retrieval_service --> |"Access"| store
    retrieval_service --> |"Return Context"| open_api

    %% Status Query Flow
    client --> |"4.Poll"| job_status
    job_status --> |"5.Return Progress"| client
    
    %% Database connects to Query Service
    store --> retrieve

    %% Style Definitions (Adjusted to match GitHub theme colors)
    classDef process fill:#d1ecf1,stroke:#0077b6,stroke-width:1px
    classDef database fill:#e2eafc,stroke:#003566,stroke-width:1px
    classDef input fill:#caf0f8,stroke:#0077b6,stroke-width:1px
    classDef output fill:#ffc8dd,stroke:#d00000,stroke-width:1px
    classDef rerank fill:#cdb4db,stroke:#5a189a,stroke-width:1px
    classDef async fill:#f8edeb,stroke:#7f5539,stroke-width:1px,stroke-dasharray: 5 5
    classDef actor fill:#fefae0,stroke:#606c38,stroke-width:1px
    classDef jobQuery fill:#ffedd8,stroke:#ca6702,stroke-width:1px
    classDef queryProcess fill:#d8f3dc,stroke:#40916c,stroke-width:1px
    classDef embeddingService fill:#ffe5d9,stroke:#9d0208,stroke-width:1px
    classDef importProcess fill:#e5e5e5,stroke:#495057,stroke-width:1px

    %% Applying classes to nodes
    class docs,query,retrieval_service input
    class preprocess,split,query_embed,retrieve,context,llm process
    class store,nfs database
    class response,job_id,job_status output
    class rerank rerank
    class async_process async
    class client,open_api actor
    class job_query jobQuery
    style query_process fill:#d8f3dc,stroke:#40916c,stroke-width:1px
    style embedding_process fill:#ffe5d9,stroke:#9d0208,stroke-width:1px
    style import_process fill:#e5e5e5,stroke:#495057,stroke-width:1px
    style job_query fill:#ffedd8,stroke:#ca6702,stroke-width:1px
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker & Docker Compose v2.0+
- Node.js 18+
- Python 3.9+
- 8GB+ RAM

### Installation

1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/rag-web-ui/rag-web-ui.git
cd rag-web-ui
```

2. Configure environment variables

You can check the details in the configuration table below.

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Start services(development server)
```bash
docker compose up -d --build
```

### Verification

Access the following URLs after service startup:

- 🌐 Frontend UI: http://127.0.0.1.nip.io
- 📚 API Documentation: http://127.0.0.1.nip.io/redoc
- 💾 MinIO Console: http://127.0.0.1.nip.io:9001

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Backend Stack

- 🐍 **Python FastAPI**: High-performance async web framework
- 🗄️ **MySQL + ChromaDB**: Relational + Vector databases
- 📦 **MinIO**: Distributed object storage
- 🔗 **Langchain**: LLM application framework
- 🔒 **JWT + OAuth2**: Authentication

### Frontend Stack

- ⚛️ **Next.js 14**: React framework
- 📘 **TypeScript**: Type safety
- 🎨 **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS
- 🎯 **Shadcn/UI**: High-quality components
- 🤖 **Vercel AI SDK**: AI integration

## 📈 Performance Optimization

The system is optimized in the following aspects:

- ⚡️ Incremental document processing and async chunking
- 🔄 Streaming responses and real-time feedback
- 📑 Vector database performance tuning
- 🎯 Distributed task processing

## 📖 Development Guide

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d --build
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Core Configuration

| Parameter                   | Description                | Default   | Required |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------- | --------- | -------- |
| MYSQL_SERVER                | MySQL Server Address       | localhost | ✅        |
| MYSQL_USER                  | MySQL Username             | postgres  | ✅        |
| MYSQL_PASSWORD              | MySQL Password             | postgres  | ✅        |
| MYSQL_DATABASE              | MySQL Database Name        | ragwebui  | ✅        |
| SECRET_KEY                  | JWT Secret Key             | -         | ✅        |
| ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRE_MINUTES | JWT Token Expiry (minutes) | 30        | ✅        |

### LLM Configuration

| Parameter         | Description           | Default                   | Applicable            |
| ----------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------- | --------------------- |
| CHAT_PROVIDER     | LLM Service Provider  | openai                    | ✅                     |
| OPENAI_API_KEY    | OpenAI API Key        | -                         | Required for OpenAI   |
| OPENAI_API_BASE   | OpenAI API Base URL   | https://api.openai.com/v1 | Optional for OpenAI   |
| OPENAI_MODEL      | OpenAI Model Name     | gpt-4                     | Required for OpenAI   |
| DEEPSEEK_API_KEY  | DeepSeek API Key      | -                         | Required for DeepSeek |
| DEEPSEEK_API_BASE | DeepSeek API Base URL | -                         | Required for DeepSeek |
| DEEPSEEK_MODEL    | DeepSeek Model Name   | -                         | Required for DeepSeek |
| OLLAMA_API_BASE   | Ollama API Base URL   | http://localhost:11434    | Required for Ollama   |
| OLLAMA_MODEL      | Ollama Model Name     | llama2                    | Required for Ollama   |

### Embedding Configuration

| Parameter                   | Description                | Default                | Applicable                    |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| EMBEDDINGS_PROVIDER         | Embedding Service Provider | openai                 | ✅                             |
| OPENAI_API_KEY              | OpenAI API Key             | -                      | Required for OpenAI Embedding |
| OPENAI_EMBEDDINGS_MODEL     | OpenAI Embedding Model     | text-embedding-ada-002 | Required for OpenAI Embedding |
| DASH_SCOPE_API_KEY          | DashScope API Key          | -                      | Required for DashScope        |
| DASH_SCOPE_EMBEDDINGS_MODEL | DashScope Embedding Model  | -                      | Required for DashScope        |
| OLLAMA_EMBEDDINGS_MODEL     | Ollama Embedding Model     | deepseek-r1:7b         | Required for Ollama Embedding |

### Vector Database Configuration

| Parameter          | Description                       | Default               | Applicable            |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------- | --------------------- | --------------------- |
| VECTOR_STORE_TYPE  | Vector Store Type                 | chroma                | ✅                     |
| CHROMA_DB_HOST     | ChromaDB Server Address           | localhost             | Required for ChromaDB |
| CHROMA_DB_PORT     | ChromaDB Port                     | 8000                  | Required for ChromaDB |
| QDRANT_URL         | Qdrant Vector Store URL           | http://localhost:6333 | Required for Qdrant   |
| QDRANT_PREFER_GRPC | Prefer gRPC Connection for Qdrant | true                  | Optional for Qdrant   |

### Object Storage Configuration

| Parameter         | Description          | Default        | Required |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------- | -------- |
| MINIO_ENDPOINT    | MinIO Server Address | localhost:9000 | ✅        |
| MINIO_ACCESS_KEY  | MinIO Access Key     | minioadmin     | ✅        |
| MINIO_SECRET_KEY  | MinIO Secret Key     | minioadmin     | ✅        |
| MINIO_BUCKET_NAME | MinIO Bucket Name    | documents      | ✅        |

### Other Configuration

| Parameter | Description      | Default       | Required |
| --------- | ---------------- | ------------- | -------- |
| TZ        | Timezone Setting | Asia/Shanghai | ❌        |

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome community contributions!

### Contribution Process

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Create a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines

- Follow [Python PEP 8](https://pep8.org/) coding standards
- Follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)

### 🚧 Roadmap

- [x] Knowledge Base API Integration
- [ ] Workflow By Natural Language
- [ ] Multi-path Retrieval
- [x] Support Multiple Models
- [x] Support Multiple Vector Databases

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

For common issues and solutions, please refer to our [Troubleshooting Guide](docs/troubleshooting.md).

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the [Apache-2.0 License](LICENSE)

## Note

This project is for learning and sharing RAG knowledge only. Please do not use it for commercial purposes. It is not ready for production use and is still under active development.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Thanks to these open source projects:

- [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
- [Langchain](https://python.langchain.com/)
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
- [ChromaDB](https://www.trychroma.com/)


![star history](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=rag-web-ui/rag-web-ui&type=Date)

---

<div align="center">
  If this project helps you, please consider giving it a ⭐️
</div>
